TARA NARRATING: Previously
on "Dance Academy."
-Uh, third years, I'd like
to introduce Marcus Kane,
artistic director of
the Austin Ballet.
-You crazy kids are in love?
-So you just bat those sleepy
lashes, and the academy begs
you to come back?
-I have friends in
high places.
-Well, Christian and I could
do one-on-one classes.
It'd only be, what, an extra
10 or 12 hour a week?
-Have you stopped to think about
why Saskia wants to help
you?
-Look, Saskia sees something
in me, something special.
But you clearly don't, do you?
[theme music]
[music playing]
-[singing]
See me, see you.
I think you might be God,
but I'm coming through.
TARA NARRATING: Patterns--
when you look hard enough, you
realize they're absolutely
everywhere.
-[singing]
So you wanna roll with
the chief, huh?
Well, we could just
roll like Caesar.
TARA NARRATING: In every song.
[audience applauding]
TARA NARRATING: In every bow.
-OK, ladies, your bourees
were generally lazy
in the second act.
And I want to reiterate that
absolutely no one is to be
even a millimeter
out of alignment
for the gala matinee.
Tara, your arabesques are still
two inches lower than
everybody else.
-And Grace?
Sir Jeffrey has requested
that you become
familiar with ellipses.
-Does that I what I
think it means?
-Congrats, babe.
-I'm coming on tour!
-Yay!
TARA NARRATING: Then there are
our negative patterns.
-Show me.
TARA NARRATING: Those
pesky spin cycles we
find ourselves in.
-You're a smart boy, making
yourself indispensable.
I wouldn't keep Saskia
waiting.
She gets cranky when
you do that.
TARA NARRATING: By now, I have
a fairly good idea of my
trademarked patterns of
self-destruction.
For instance, how I never
appreciate what I've
got until it's gone.
And then I miss it so much I
can hardly see straight.
-I'm booking a breakfast
tomorrow.
You, me, Sir Jeffrey.
We need to talk about
your future.
TARA NARRATING: Unfortunately,
being aware of our negative
patterns doesn't mean we have
the slightest idea how to
break them.
[music playing]
-[singing]
You think you got it, boy.
You think you know it all.
This world is big and bad.
You don't know what
it's got in store.
You gotta fight so--
-Well, good.
I'm sure we'll get it next time,
as long as we're not
interrupted.
-You're a real team player
these days, Beyonce.
-We're making a music video.
-Ah.
-We'll leave it on.
-[laughs]
-Darling.
-(DELIGHTEDLY) Oh.
[both making kissing sounds]
-Benjamin.
Oh.
Now what's this I hear
about you, uh,
being the next Nijinsky?
-Really?
[chuckles]
-Oh, stuff is like chili
on steroids.
-Yeah, my back's used to it.
But make sure you
wash your hands.
Now the literature says that
we have to replace your
trigger points with
fun distractions.
What are your thoughts
on archery?
-[sighs]
T, I appreciate your
unbridled support.
But you have a gala focus on.
-No, this is--
-I'm serious.
If I see your pretty face
between now and then, I'm
going to vomit, just
on principle.
-Bulimia humor.
LOL.
-Funny, yet deflective.
-No, mom, no.
That's exceptional.
Um, the film crew is booked for
tomorrow, so I need your
help recruiting dancers.
We're gonna step this up.
-Whoo!
Fun distractions, you say?
Tara, I believe it's time to
leave her with the babysitter.
-Yay.
This is perfect.
-People, please.
Can we just take a stab
at normality?
Give me some boy problems
to ponder.
-I've got nothing.
-What?
Not even those sordid rumors
about Saskia and Ben?
-I had a gorgeous guy with a
heart the size of Sydney
Harbour, who I absolutely didn't
deserve, and I stuffed
it up again.
-Usually this is where you break
the land speed record to
stalk your way back in.
-This time, I am accepting
that he's gone and doing
absolutely nothing.
Breaking the pattern.
-Such an irresponsible
present.
I told Marcus I didn't have
time to take care of an
animal.
-I say get rid of him.
The kitten, not Marcus.
How's that?
-Good.
Release from your center.
[kitten mews]
-Isabelle says that Eloise, you
know the girl whose place
I'm taking on the tour--
-Whose place you're
probably taking.
They say it isn't confirmed.
-Right.
Well, her dad is, like,
on a respirator.
So unlikely she'll
make it back.
How sad is that?
-I think you missed
the sissonne.
-Doesn't it feel like
everything's
working out for us?
You have Marcus and
the furball.
And I have the company.
Girls there are so much
more on my level.
-I'm proud.
How far you've come this year.
-[chuckles]
Thanks, Lucy.
-And that hack from "The Herald"
has the nerve to call
us dated, as if respecting
the classics is
akin to being lazy.
What do you think of the
repertoire, Ben?
-Oh, I like the classics,
sir, yeah.
-That's an understatement.
We've been working on the
Black Swan pas de deux.
And someone needs to explain to
me why he isn't a full-time
member of the company--
-[coughs]
---given he's at soloist
standard already.
-[coughing]
-He's still a student.
-Well, is that an excuse to
deprive the dance world any
longer?
-Darling, I have no problem
arranging and early audition
after the gala madness
is over.
You'll keep that on
the down low?
-Of course.
Yes.
Thank you, Sir Jeffrey.
-[clears throat]
Walk me back.
-Will do.
I'll catch you later.
-Yeah, thanks.
Ta.
-Now, speaking of partners,
have you noticed Hugo's
looking a little disheveled
lately?
-You don't have to audition
early, if you decide
you don't want to.
-It's the company.
-First impressions count
with Sir Jeffrey.
If he's underwhelmed now, it
could affect your chances at
the end of the year.
-I'll just have to
be awesome then.
[chuckles]
-Ah, congratulations,
gentleman.
Only 40 minutes late.
-I had a breakfast meeting.
-Hence the lipstick
on your cheek?
-Saskia dance me close.
-I don't even want to know
what that means.
-What about you, Christian?
-Oh, snooze button hates me.
-That's fine, but, uh, do us
all a favor and pull your
tights up, huh?
-Do you have any feedback
for us, Zach?
You know, the ones who were
actually dancing?
-Come on.
Don't be needy.
Ladies, travel it.
And--
-Hey, wonderboy.
I can continue on you
tomorrow, yeah?
I mean it's not interrupting
any special time with Zach?
-Hey, Zach.
Um, about my next couple
of sessions--
-Yeah.
I was thinking maybe you
could help me workshop
the third year tour.
We're doing "Romeo
and Juliet," but
a more modern version.
How would you feel
about Romeo?
-Wouldn't that be
sort of a lead?
-Well, it's not an offer.
You'd still need to get those
classes caught up.
-The thing is, Ollie's planning
this film clip, asked
me to help.
Directing that could
count towards some
of my catch-up hours.
-Second group, ready to go.
-Sorry, I guess it's not like
dancing with a principal.
-Nope.
-[sighs]
I don't want to encroach
on your space.
But if it helps, I know I was
totally self-absorbed to say
that--
-What?
That Saskia would fake believe
in me as a weird revenge plot
just to get back at you?
-Yeah.
Plus, she's seriously
beautiful, and--
-You people and your
sick minds.
You think I'm dating
Saskia too?
-Not to get ahead
in the company.
I, I would never listen to
any of those rumors.
But [sighs]
you can date her,
if you want to.
-Thanks heaps for
your permission.
-Don't you have a home to
go to or something?
-I want you to understand this
is a huge concession.
Definitely not what Miss Raine
had in mind when we said we'd
make up your class.
-Oh, I really think it's going
to help with my motivation,
getting back to my roots.
[sighs]
-OK.
Um, thank you all for giving
your time today.
These guys are costing me
years of parental debt.
So we need to move
this quickly.
[music playing]
-Look, Kat, if you can't keep
up, just go back to makeup.
-Kat's the only one here with
professional music video
experience, so--
-Maybe it's the choreo
that's awkward.
Maybe instead of a freeze, it
should be a elbow stand.
-I don't hate that.
-You're overruled.
It doesn't go as well
with the lyrics.
-Well, maybe you should try
Christian's move in the
run-through and make
the call then.
-Oh, Grace.
-Ugh.
[sighs]
Lock the door.
You're a role model, Lucy.
-We were about to
come find you.
We, uh, wanted you to be
the first to know.
-Marcus, you put a ring on it.
Sorry, the whole wow proposal
thing lost effect after my
dad's third engagement.
I assume the rush is because--
-[laughs]
Oh, no.
-I'm not.
-Then why?
You've only been dating
for, like, six weeks?
-Well, I was stupid enough
let her go once.
I'm far too old to make that
same mistake again.
-And are you all planning
on moving to Texas?
You could get kitty to walk down
the aisle wearing one of
those Texan hats.
-[laughs]
It's all just happening now.
We haven't figured out
the details yet.
[music playing]
-Yikes.
Every male in the company just
suddenly got spooked.
-Really?
-Hey, tonight after the
gala, what about I
take you out for dinner?
It could be instructive for us
to work on our connection
outside the studio?
Wow.
You just went all
deer-in-headlights.
-Oh.
[chuckles]
It just sounded for a second
there that you, uh, you're
asking me out.
-Well, all of the men in the
company date younger dancers.
Why shouldn't I?
-Um, because I'm me,
and you're you.
And, well, you went out with
Hugo, and he's, like, the
right age and a dance god.
What am I?
Young, fresh meat just
to make him jealous?
-If that happened to be a
byproduct, would it be such a
heinous crime?
Grow up.
Hugo's your competition.
Everyone in the company is.
You psyche out who
you have to.
When someone like me gets
someone like you an audition,
what you say is thank you.
-Moshi, moshi.
I've got the core work down
as well as the solos.
Consider this dance
cog fully graced.
-Didn't we hear this morning
from Eloise?
Oh, darling, worse luck.
You know I would take
you if I could.
But the horrible money people
are on at me about numbers.
-But I downloaded
a phrasebook.
-And that shows a wonderful
work ethic.
Do keep it up.
-So you toy with people's
lives for sport?
-That's how it goes sometimes.
You should make room for me
in the core regardless.
I'm the pre-champion.
I did the entire national
ballet a favor by
coming back this year.
-Look, I'm sorry.
That's the way it is.
[DANCERS CHATTING IN
THE BACKGROUND]
-Belle, babe, I got completely
screwed tour-wise.
Can you give us a sec?
I need to debrief.
-Grace, this is, uh, Eloise.
Eloise's dad just got
the all-clear.
-Wasn't he, like,
close to death?
-Yeah, and we're all
pretty relieved.
-Oh, hey, um, we, um, we've
already checked with Rebecca,
and she said it's cool it Ellie
goes on instead of you.
-I know it's pathetic.
But the season's ending, and--
Oh, feel free to say no.
-To time off?
You're doing me a favor.
-Thanks, babe.
So anyways, I have put a blanket
ban on anything to do
with karaoke.
Because you remember what
happened last time.
-Tagahashi with the
cheek implants?
ANNOUNCER: Act 1 beginners
to the stage.
Act 1 beginners to the stage.
-Yes?
[music playing]
-[singing]
You think you got it, boy.
You think you know it all.
This world is big and bad.
You don't know what
I've got in store.
You gotta fight so hard, like
you're saving your life.
And it's starting tonight.
-What was that?
It pulls focus.
-It was just a suggestion.
Don't worry about it.
-Oh, thanks.
But we're over time, so I will
actually worry about it.
Because it is my
song, my clip.
I'm not just here to
get out of class.
See, I show up, and I'm
better than you.
And still I'm the one that
needs backup options.
-Oliver.
Dramatics.
-Come on.
You're as sick of it as I am.
The favorites are always the
ones who deserve it the least.
-I couldn't agree
with you more.
ANNOUNCER: Act 2 beginners
to the stage.
Act 2--
-I promise I'm not lurking
or stalking.
-There are all these agendas.
-I'm sorry?
-I'm basically a pawn
in Saskia's web.
Sir Jeffrey's only auditioning
me to keep her happy.
And Rebecca doesn't think
I'm ready, so--
-You got an early addition
with the company?
Ben, unbelievably amazing.
-No, but I'm not
going to do it.
Even if I do get in, everyone
will say that I don't deserve
it, which would be accurate.
-Forget that.
You do deserve it.
And if you dance the way you
usually do, Sir Jeffrey's
going to love you.
-You OK?
-Yeah, I'm just a
little bit hot.
[dancers yelling]
-You look kind of welty.
-It's burning!
It's burning!
DANCER (OFFSCREEN):
Hurry, hurry.
Wash it.
-It's all through my costume.
-I'm burning everywhere.
Literally everywhere.
-Yes, the entire core.
We're going to need replacement
costumes.
-That looks yowchy.
I'm so blessed I'm
not dancing.
-There's catastrophically
messed up, and
then there's you.
-You think it was
your heat cream?
I wouldn't admit that
too loudly.
Kind of careless, leaving
it around.
-If we can't hold the curtain,
then we'll need something
before Act 2.
Yes?
Yes, I'm on to it.
Saskia, you've been working
on the Black Swan?
-Mm.
-Great.
You're on with Hugo in five.
-Black Swan?
Sheesh, Becks.
Everyone will know she's not
what she used to be.
-Ugh.
He's the one that's been running
around with the core
every night this month.
I refuse to go out
there with him.
-Sir Jeffrey has requested
Saskia, so we're going to have
to find you a partner.
-I can do it.
I wasn't affected, and we've
been rehearsing together.
-That's not an option.
-Oh, but they could make
history out there.
Isn't he meant to be the Nureyev
to your Fonteyn?
-Yes.
And twice the partner
you've ever been.
Put me on to Sir Jeffrey.
The only way I'm going out
there is with Ben.
Give me the phone.
[music playing]
-Your mom asked me to
drop these off.
She didn't wanted to disturb
the process.
Where's Christian?
-Uh, bailed.
It was a shock to everyone.
-I'm not going to
sugarcoat it.
Your way's not working.
-My parents are so happy to
pay for stuff like this.
I want to repeat third year?
Sure, Ollie, how can we help?
Pretty soon they're going to
realize I'm not such a great
investment.
-I think that's classed as
a first world problem.
-[snickers]
Wait, what you're doing?
There's no time for pizza.
We're going for a take.
Christian's chory.
-[sighs]
-Einstein said the definition of
insanity is doing the same
thing over and over
again and hoping
for a different outcome.
Maybe I should be
institutionalized, then.
-It's cool, Zach.
I'll come to class tomorrow, and
you can keep feeling like
you're saving the world
one disadvantaged
student at a time.
But there's still no way I'm
going to be able to make up
all those classes, and I
shouldn't be dancing Romeo.
-Yeah.
Maybe you should just give up.
-Yeah, maybe.
-Do you know how many times
we've been through this?
And the thing is you
always come back.
Because the real problem I don't
think has anything to do
with dance.
-Tell me, Zach, what's
my real problem?
-You don't respect yourself.
You don't respect your talent.
And you hate people who do,
because deep down, I don't
know, maybe you hate yourself.
Whatever it is, it started
way before Sammy, so
don't you blame him.
Right?
And you need to sort this out.
Otherwise it will dictate
the rest of your life.
-Is that it?
You done?
-Yeah.
Good luck, Christian.
-Consider this your
company audition.
[audience applauding]
[music playing]
-[groans]
-[laughs]
[audience murmuring]
-No.
TARA NARRATING: Maybe breaking
your pattern is a bit like one
of those Magic Eye paintings.
You have to look at things
from the right angle.
-No.
-What are you doing?
TARA NARRATING: I'm forever
fixating on how I feel, what I
need to do when I could be
focusing on what someone else
might need from me.
-[laughs]
-(QUIETLY) Drop the curtain.
Drop it now!
TARA NARRATING: Passions
are so ingrained in us.
It's like they're in control,
and we don't even know it.
-[gasps]
-I just heard about the tour.
-And you blew off a night
of happy families
to pretend you care?
What you don't get is that I
don't need the company, and I
don't need you.
I don't need anyone.
-Grace, what happened?
-[crying]
TARA NARRATING: If we could just
find the circuit breaker,
we could stop the
slightest tremor
from becoming a landslide.
[music playing]
TARA NARRATING: Let go of
the need to be a star.
Go back and face our demons.
-[sighs]
-This is not some school
production.
In my professional career, I
have never been so humiliated.
It is abundantly clear that
neither of you is ready to be
part of this company.
TARA NARRATING: Breaking
a pattern might
get a little messy.
But it could also create room
for a new one to form, one you
definitely want to hold onto.
[theme music]